---
title: "Oblivion"
summary: "Interests that once boiled relentlessly within me have dried up one by one. No passion from the past remains for me, and each one, very soon or a little later, returned to the same nothingness from which it was formed. Everything has dried up within me so much that it's as if they never existed, and only a faint trace remains in my memory. Terrifying and dreadful memories. What I have in mind is so alien and unfamiliar with the truth of the present, meaning what should arouse passion in me, that sometimes I imagine they never existed and are the offspring of the strongest illusions."
date: "2024-12-17"
categories: ["Notes"]
hidden: true
---


**Gradually, all that came, go and are forgotten.**

Interests that once boiled relentlessly within me have dried up one by one. No passion from the past remains for me, and each one, very soon or a little later, returned to the same nothingness from which it was formed. Everything has dried up within me so much that it's as if they never existed, and only a faint trace remains in my memory. Terrifying and dreadful memories. What I have in mind is so alien and unfamiliar with the truth of the present, meaning what should arouse passion in me, that sometimes I imagine they never existed and are the offspring of the strongest illusions.

Perhaps I should write a list of everything I liked and is still left in my memory. Of what is happening to me.

Writing these days has become one of the hardest tasks for me. After passing the third letter, I no longer remember what I have written. Words flow on their own, and it is my subconscious that writes. For this reason, very often the verb at the end of the sentence does not match the pronoun, or sentences become so complex that, as someone said, even though I write in Persian, they are incomprehensible to the reader. It's as if just as my thoughts are tangled and jumbled in my mind, words also appear the same way in my writings; like understanding the words and states of someone who is dead drunk on alcohol. Words are uttered, but their arrangement has no meaning. I don't know where this problem stems from, but whatever it is, it is intensifying. I understand this well, although those around me try to deny it or dismiss it with oversimplification; whether with silence or with examples from themselves being like this or that. But I know they are not like this.

It was decided that I write about the interests whose memory still remains in my mind. Just a few months ago, I wholeheartedly wanted to buy a camera. I had become interested in amateur photography for a few years and thought I had a bit of talent. Of course, I neither had its knowledge nor the technique, but I presumed I had sharp eyes and a different perspective. This interest grew in me to the point where I decided to acquire the famous book *Understanding Exposure*. With a thousand struggles, I bought the book. Finding non-Italian books is very hard here, and I had to order online. But the price of the book was staggering, and for me, a student, such an expense was backbreaking. I tried looking for a used copy, but to no avail, and finally, I ordered it online.

Then I fell into the urge of buying a camera, but I knew well that spending such an exorbitant amount on an interest that is going to die out very soon, especially in this situation, is hundreds of light-years away from rationality. I hesitated and returned to my mobile phone camera again. Meanwhile, I found a photographer friend and asked him to teach me photography. He was an interesting person too, but I don't know how it happened that after a while, I didn't even have an interest in photography with my mobile phone. Today, as I sit in Paris and write this text, I have almost no passion to capture its unparalleled streets and eye-catching buildings. It's as if that interest was only a distant illusion and nothing more.

The description of all the interests that existed and are no longer there is extensive. I can bring a list of them here:

- The intense interest I had in childhood, between 8 to 12 years old, in building things; from making a telescope to assembling electronic kits and eventually an interest in the world of robotics.
- Rummaging through computers between the ages of 12 to 16. In those years, I was active in Persian software forums and later, when my English improved, in English ones. Back then, the Windows Registry was mysterious to me, and I thought there were worlds hidden in it that I had to discover. Later, I became interested in malware analysis. I remember being 14-15 years old and downloading the book *Practical Malware Analysis* for the first time, but to understand it, I neither knew enough English nor had the basic knowledge.
- Along with malware analysis, my interest in cracking software and reverse engineering was formed, but I stopped very soon. Because stepping here was like swimming with a wheelchair, and I found no useful resource other than watching tutorial videos on making a crack for such-and-such software.

The count of examples is beyond a thousand. Telling them is also pointless. As if I wanted to recount a display of honor, glory, and splendor from the past for you so your mouth waters. So that I feel happy. So it's better to pass over these examples... Anyway
All these interests that formed in me spontaneously without anyone guiding me or having a source of inspiration, and evaporated and went up in smoke on their own without anyone doing anything. Sometimes when I see the LinkedIn pages of people who have made a name for themselves, I clearly see that what they are today is a building whose foundation was firmly laid in those very years. But me? All that I was, was abandoned fruitlessly, and now I have reached a point where I cannot do anything. This is the reality. From a certain point onwards, there is no longer an opportunity to make amends, and I am standing at this point. A point where ahead of me is a clear past, and behind me, a future drowning in fog so much that I cannot see slightly beyond my steps. How can I return to 12-15 years ago? And suppose I could and returned, it's still the same old story. Again, all of them will be abandoned fruitlessly and pointlessly.

Day by day, my abilities are declining. I no longer have that mental sharpness that accompanied me for years. The vocabulary that was in my memory for years is disappearing. Names and words come to mind with difficulty, and I have to pause for a long time to remember them. It's as if my brain has decided to move all that information to its deepest layers; if it hasn't actually deleted them.

I don't know where this story will end, but I see this downward trend with my own eyes. Alongside all the regrets, I am terrified of the day when I will lose everything I am and be completely destroyed. My image of myself is nothing but my memories. The day when all my memories are forgotten, or I, what I remember of myself, have no resemblance to what I am… I am terrified of the coming of that day.